


Network Working Group                                       M. McRoberts
Internet-Draft                                             Project Baird
Intended status: Informational                              July 4, 2010
Expires: January 5, 2011


                 Project Baird: General System Overview
                   draft-mcroberts-baird-overview-00

Abstract

   Project Baird is a collection of specifications defining means by
   which Internet-based services can be associated to television and
   radio broadcasts in a variety of deployment scenarios.  This document
   provides a general overview of the project and system architecture.

Status of this Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at http://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on January 5, 2011.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2010 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents
   (http://trustee.ietf.org/license-info) in effect on the date of
   publication of this document.  Please review these documents
   carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions with respect
   to this document.  Code Components extracted from this document must
   include Simplified BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of
   the Trust Legal Provisions and are provided without warranty as
   described in the Simplified BSD License.




McRoberts                Expires January 5, 2011                [Page 1]

Internet-Draft          Project Baird - Overview               July 2010


1.  Introduction

   Project Baird is the name given to an effort intended to collate
   specifications in order to define an architecture by which broadcast
   television and radio programming can be augmented by Internet-based
   services.

   Where possible, Project Baird makes use of existing standards - the
   intent is not to invent an entire ecosystem, but to bring together
   specifications which already exist in order to create a coherent
   environment.

   Project Baird is deliberately agnostic in as many respects as
   possible: for example, any broadcasting system can be used provided
   services (stations) and events (programmes) can be uniquely
   identified in the form of fully-qualified domain names and URIs
   respectively.

   The below sections outline expected deployment scenarios in general
   terms, followed by an brief overview of each of the different aspects
   of the Baird environment.






























McRoberts                Expires January 5, 2011                [Page 2]

Internet-Draft          Project Baird - Overview               July 2010


2.  Deployment scenarios

   Project Baird is not a single specification to a particular
   environment either conforms or does not in a simple binary fashion:
   there are a range of different configurations with varying levels of
   functionality all of which fall within the scope of the project.

   Project Baird is structured in this manner to allow for gradual
   adoption on the parts of both consumers and broadcasters: wholesale
   upgrades, while feasible to an extent on the part of broadcasters
   (cost permitting) is rarely a realistic proposition for consumers.
   For this reason, the first scenario described here involves no new
   reception hardware.

   As Project Baird's aims are, first and foremost, to provide an open-
   ended architecture -- frameworks upon which applications can be
   developed -- the services which can be made available will only grow
   over time.  Moreover, by specifying how existing systems can be
   augmented in order to make this possible, rather than seeking to
   define every aspect of a hybrid TV/Internet environment, it does not
   restrict the applications which can be developed: there is no central
   authority which must grant approval to content providers, independent
   developers or hardware vendors before applications, products and
   devices can be distributed -- each party only has to conform to the
   specifications for the functionality they implement.

2.1.  Traditional receiver with secondary devices

   In this scenario, a consumer has a traditional receiver, for example
   a television with an integrated receiver, or some kind of set-top
   device; the receiver is not connected to the consumer's local network
   or the Internet at all.

   However, the consumer does, have other devices which are Internet-
   connected: perhaps a laptop or a smartphone.  An application or
   website can, once informed by the consumer as to which channel their
   receiver is tuned to, provide related content (including secondary
   audio/visual streams, timed events, or even a simulcast of the
   broadcast programme).  Although the secondary device will not
   automatically be notified if the user switches channels, for example,
   there remains a broad set of functionality which can be made
   available.

   If there are multiple devices operating on the local network, then
   they will be able to communicate and co-ordinate with one another
   regarding the programmes being received: for example, "household
   recommendations" could be presented which are intended to be
   appropriate not just to the single user but to the entire household



McRoberts                Expires January 5, 2011                [Page 3]

Internet-Draft          Project Baird - Overview               July 2010


   based upon the presence of multiple devices.

2.2.  Hybrid receiver

   An alternate scenario is one where a receiver is itself Internet-
   connected but does not communicate with any secondary devices.  Many
   modern cable TV set-top boxes fall in to this category today.

   As compared to the previous scenario, some aspects of the available
   functionality are enhanced, while others are handicapped.  For
   example, the receiver holds the information regarding the current
   programme being received, and can communicate with Internet-based
   services directly in order to obtain secondary content, interactive
   applications, and some social features.

   A hybrid receiver can be capable of whole range of applications,
   allowing delivery of content from both Internet-based and broadcast
   sources.  Service discovery allows for applications and content
   related specifically to services and programmes (whether they're
   delivered via linear broadcast or via the Internet) to be
   automatically located and presented.

2.3.  Hybrid receiver with secondary devices

   A consumer who has both a hybrid receiver and secondary devices is
   afforded the benefits of both of the preceding scenarios.  This
   scenario offers a wealth of opportunities: rather than simply being
   disjoint collections of devices which happen to join the same network
   (and even then, only to access the Internet), devices can work
   together and coordinate in order to provide services to the consumer.

   When combined with secondary devices, a hybrid receiver can act as a
   conduit, as well as a local -- private -- server for protocols such
   as XMPP upon which a range of highly localised and targeted
   applications could be developed (for example, programme
   recommendations with the benefit of context in the form of presence
   information).

   Multiple devices working in tandem in this way leads to a vast range
   of possible applications from the comparatively basic -- such as
   remote control and inquiry over the network -- to the more complete,
   such as delivery of personalised, interactive, context-dependent
   content to secondary devices.

   Secondary devices which have the ability to communicate with the
   receiver also allow applications to be implemented which, although
   theoretically possible with a stand-alone hybrid receiver, would
   suffer from usability issues when put into practice.



McRoberts                Expires January 5, 2011                [Page 4]

Internet-Draft          Project Baird - Overview               July 2010


Author's Address

   Mo McRoberts
   Project Baird

   Email: mo.mcroberts@nexgenta.com
   URI:   http://projectbaird.com/












































McRoberts                Expires January 5, 2011                [Page 5]

